JavaFX basics:

FROM javaFX 8 Documentation

STAGE:

public class Stage (CONCRETE CLASS)

Stage owns a Scene (UML Composition relationship)

SCENE:

public class Scene (CONCRETE CLASS)

Scene owns a Parent (UML Composition relationship)

PARENT:

public abstract class Parent (abstract SUBCLASS OF abstract SUPERCLASS Node)
extends Node

Parent is the base class for all nodes that have children in the scene graph.

There are two direct concrete Parent subclasses

Group effects and transforms to be applied to a collection of child nodes.
Region class for nodes that can be styled with CSS and layout children.

NODE:

public abstract class Node (abstract class)

Base class for scene graph nodes. 
A scene graph is a set of tree data structures where every item has zero or one parent, and each item is either a "leaf" with 
zero sub-items or a "branch" with zero or more sub-items.
Each item in the scene graph is called a Node. 
Branch nodes are of type Parent, whose concrete subclasses are Group, Region, and Control, or subclasses thereof.
Leaf nodes are classes such as Rectangle, Text, ImageView, MediaView, or other such leaf classes which cannot have children. 
Only a single node within each scene graph tree will have no parent, which is referred to as the "root" node.

CONTROL :

public abstract class Control
extends Region ----> public class Region
extends Parent 

Control is a direct subclass of class Region is a direct subclass of abstract class Parent.

(Region : Region is the base class for all JavaFX Node-based UI Controls, and all layout containers. It is a resizable Parent node which  can be styled from CSS.)

(Control: Base class for all user interface controls. A "Control" is a node in the scene graph which can be manipulated by the user. 
Controls provide additional variables and behaviors beyond those of Node to support common user interactions in a manner which is consistent and predictable for the user.)

PANE :

public class Pane
extends Region ---> public class Region
extends Parent

A Pane owns (contains) a Node (UML Composition relationship)

Base class for layout panes which need to expose the children list as public so that users of the subclass can freely add/remove children.

IMAGEVIEW :

public class ImageView
extends Node

The ImageView is a Node used for painting images loaded with Image class.
This class allows resizing the displayed image (with or without preserving the original aspect ratio) and specifying a viewport into the source image for restricting the pixels displayed by this ImageView.

SHAPE :

public abstract class Shape
extends Node

The Shape class provides definitions of common properties for objects that represent some form of geometric shape.

DONE WITH PG 539 DIAGRAM 

